To install Jenkins the first thing we need java file so first we need to install java like we have done in the local instance.

We need to download Java 1.8 or more.

1) Update the apt repository
sudo apt update

2) sudo apt install openjdk-8-jdk -y


3) Check the Java Version
java -version

4) Install Maven & Git
sudo apt-get install -y git  maven

5) Check the Verion of Git & Maven
For Git : git --version
For Maven : mvn --version

6) Download & install Jenkins
Open Jenkins website (https://jenkins.io/download/)

Go to Long Term Support

Select Generic Java Package (.war)

We are selecting generic java package file because jenkins will install on those machine where java is already install. If we have java install in windows machine jenkins will work. Only pre requirement is java needs to be install.

For Windows we just need to click on the file and it will download automatically.

For Linux machine enter command wget and paste the url to download the file.

To get the URL right click on generic java package and click on copy link address.

(wget http://mirrors.jenkins.io/war-stable/latest/jenkins.war)

wget  https://get.jenkins.io/war-stable/2.277.2/jenkins.war

11) Start the Jenkins.war file

java -jar jenkins.war

Every day if we want to run the jenkins we need to run this command.


12) Access Jenkins Home Page

Select DEV Instance & Press Connect.

Copy the Domain Name On 4th point.

Paste the Domain name in the browser and in the end enter :8080 with the default port number.

We can access the jenkins with dev server Public IP.

Copy the public ip of the dev server and paste the ip address in the browser and in the end enter :8080 with the default port number.

Public

13) Unclock Jenkins

When we are installing jenkins it will automatically give you the password in the github terminal.

Copy the password and paste the browser.

You will get the password on the step 11

14) Press Install Suggested Plugins

15) Create First admin user

The first user which we create here is the admin user of the jenkins.

Click on save and continue.

Click on save and finish
